# EPS_synthetic_data

## Course project - Engineering Privacy in Software

### Project Overview

With the increasing concerns around privacy, the sensitive information provided by users and collected by companies has
raised issues regarding data traceability to individuals. This lack of privacy has potential harmful consequences, such
as price discrimination and bias, monetizing users' personal data, monitoring and surveillance.

To address this issue, our team aims to study ways to reduce the likelihood of personal information being traced back to
individuals. We will be undertaking a project that utilizes Microsoft's open source Synthetic Data Showcase tool to
enhance privacy when sharing or analyzing data.

Specifically, we will be utilizing the Yelp dataset provided by Yelp Inc. for our project. This dataset is a subset of
Yelp’s businesses, reviews, and user data for use in personal, educational, and academic purposes.

### Contributions

By applying Yelp's dataset on Microsoft's Synthetic Data Showcase library, we have successfully provided an artificial
dataset which protects user data rather than releasing the original dataset. Additionally, we developed a user interface
for better usability. The privacy-preserving outcomes generated by this tool is better visualized to the users.

### Set up backend

Microsoft's Synthetic Data Showcase is based on Rust, and it can be built into Python bindings. Thus, to set up the
backend server you must first install Rust.

#### Install Rust

First follow the [steps](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) according to your operating system to install the Rust
tooling.

For macOS, try

```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

and follow the on-screen instructions.

To verify the installation, try

```bash
cargo --version
```

in the terminal.

#### Install Python and Pip

#### Create a virtual env

Go to the `backend` folder, create and use a virtual Python env to install dependencies and run the backend server.

```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

#### Generate the Python bindings

Install _Maturin_ to build the bindings.

```bash
pip install maturin
```

Go to the `lib-python` package, build and install it as a python module in the current virtual environment.

```bash
cd packages/lib-python
maturin develop --release
```

#### Install the dependencies

Go back to the backend folder, and install all the required python dependencies.

```bash
cd ../../
pip install -r packages/pythonpipline/requirements.txt
```

#### Run the server
Make sure yor are in the backend folder, and run the following command:
```bash
venv/bin/python3 manage.py runserver
```

This will use the virtual env to run the Django backend server on http://localhost:8000/